out of all the peg grinds that I'm going
to teach you today the ice pick is my
personal favorite it is a grind that
involves a whole lot more balanced than
the other ones that we've talked about
because it's a grind only on your back
peg with your front wheel up so
essentially you're balancing on the back
peg it's sort of like a manual actually
except instead of rolling on your back
wheel you're sliding on your back peg
it's one of those tricks that is you you
really need to know what it is that
you're grinding on so that you can gauge
your speed and figure out your body
position because if you're grinding
something that's really slick you don't
want to be too far back because you'll
loop out really easily you want your
front end to be really low but at the
same time if you're grinding something
you know like an unwashed cement ledge
you want to make sure that you're
farther back because as as you hit it
and you decelerate your front ends
naturally going to want to drop the you
know it's it's one of those tricks that
this one more than the other grinds that
we've talked about really takes a lot of
practice you're going you know it's
going to take take you probably you know
a good couple weeks or so before you
really start to figure out the balance
point and more than just the balance
point how to balance in a grind the best
thing that I found for learning how to
use ice pick rinds is a nice relatively
low grind box you know 12 or 14 inches
high with a good bit of wax on it
because it allows you to focus more on
your balance and pumping with your legs
like you would in a manual so that you
can maintain that balance point for
longer distances once you get all that
figured out you can apply all those
skills that you've already learned to
grinding all sorts of different objects
and but at the same time having a good
foundation where you have figured out
your balance points you figured out how
to maintain that that balance that's
going to be really important to being
able to take this to other objects so
the the main thing with this is that
you're going to want to to pick up not
too high as you know as with any grind
trick and put your back wheel down on
the ledge or rail or whatever it is that
you're grinding but you don't do it too
hard because if you do it really hard
that will force your front end down and
as you you know a lot like a manual
when when you land you want to kind of
squat back into it a little bit and that
will allow you to Holt to hold the front
end up and then when it comes time to
get the front end up just a little
gentle hop kind of like a like you're
hopping out of a manual we'll get you
right off of whatever you're driving so
the important thing the important base
to have at this point pretty much is
feeble grinds and manuals because it's
sort of a combination between the two
those two tricks you know you want to
sort of figure out how it is that a peg
grind feels which comes from feeble
grinds but you want to in execution the
ice pick is almost exactly like a manual
actually and so you really want to make
sure that you have your manuals and your
balance points really figure it out
before you start really trying this
trick and if you're having issues with
the trick maybe you need to work on your
manuals some more